# Repository for ENGI E4800 Capstone Project

Exposure to air pollution is a major global public health concern. One of the main limitations of air pollution epidemiologic studies is exposure assessment. Although multiple prediction models have been developed to predict pollutant concentrations in high spatio-temporal resolution, the predictive accuracy of these models greatly varies in space and time. Furthermore, these predictions are subsequently included in the health models as "true" exposures, ignoring any uncertainty related to them. To address these two critical limitations, we have developed a novel method, called Bayesian Nonparametric Ensemble (BNE), that integrates information across multiple existing prediction models, using adaptive weights to weigh each model by its predictive accuracy in each space and time point yielding substantially higher predictive accuracy than any single prediction model and other commonly used ensembles. Importantly, BNE fully characterizes the intra- and inter-model uncertainty, a highly desirable feature as it can both allow propagation of uncertainty into health models and help identify those areas with highest uncertainty to guide placement of monitoring stations. We have applied this method in a small area around the city of Boston, MA, using only three existing prediction models. Our goal is to apply this method nationwide using information on > 25 existing prediction models. The students involved in this capstone project can run this research project to apply the developed method nationwide. Specifically, this is a highly interdisciplinary project that is clearly data science driven. The predictions of the existing models to be used as inputs in BNE need to be downloaded and harmonized in a computationally scalable manner (these datasets are expected to massive; these will be daily predictions of pollutants for ~15 years at a 1km by 1 km grid resolution), BNE is a bayesian nonparemetric ensemble that requires understanding of machine learning allowing the students to acquire familiarity with these highly advanced methods, it is a highly interdisciplinary work in collaboration with machine learning experts, biostatisticians, environmental epidemiologists and atmospheric chemists, and the output of this work will be highly impactful for nationwide air pollution exposure assessment that can subsequently inform both regulatory action and the placement of additional monitoring stations at those locations where air pollution prediction is most uncertain. Finally, an additional aim of this project will be to create an interactive visualization tool to present the results of the BNE predictions and their uncertainties, and also create a website that will hold these predictions and the interactive visuals, so researchers around the US can benefit from our analyses. Therefore, this project is ideal for a data science capstone project.

### The `download_epa_data.sh` file

downloads the data. It will create a directory and subdirectory called **Data/epa_data** from wherever the script is run. It will download all of the EPA csv files from 2000 to 2016 and place them in this directory. If you already have a **Data** directory in the same directory as this script, it will simply create the **epa_data** directory inside.
Simply run **./download_epa_data.sh** in whichever directory you would like the **epa_data** directory to be created.
